# Lazada Veracity Checker
This project builds and trains a machine learning model to detect fake products and reviews using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques. The goal is to help Lazada user identify fake products and reviews that could mislead customers. 


## Installation Guidance
**Install the following python dependency**

```python
pip install requirements.txt
```

## User Guidance
***IMPORTANCE***

The current Chrome Driver (for *Selenium* web scraping) only support Google Chrome version **138**, which is the latest version. If your Google Chrome is having a older version, please download the Chrome Driver that match with your Google Chrome Version in https://googlechromelabs.github.io/chrome-for-testing/. The document is in https://developer.chrome.com/docs/chromedriver/downloads#chromedriver_920451543.


After you had install all dependency and verify the Google Chrome version, you may run
```python
python main.py
```
It will pop up an interface that allows you to insert any Lazada product URL. 

The user must manually complete the human verification on the Google Chrome page that pop up, since we are not capable to bypass the *CAPTCHA* detection. The user will have some time to complete the human verification, if the user didn't pass the human verification within certain time, the Google Chrome page will be close. 

After the user had completed the verification, please wait patiently for the backend code to perform web scraping. Sometimes the web scraping might fail due Lazada API failed to fetch product data (where you will see there is 0 rating and 0 review) or the Lazada API accidently fetched mobile device page instead of desktop page, please try again if this happned.

## Demonstration Video & Architecture Slides
Video:
https://youtu.be/cAlhYjGGdOo

Slides:
https://www.canva.com/design/DAGtf0UVX3Y/yDdp8v6UV3n93IHWktkA2g/edit?utm_content=DAGtf0UVX3Y&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link2&utm_source=sharebutton

## Dataset
- **File:** `fake reviews dataset (new).xlsx`

The dataset consists of e-commerce product reviews, including both human-written and bot-generated reviews. It contains fields such as review text, user rating, and a label indicating whether the review was generated by a bot or not.

- **File:** `review_sentiment.csv`

The dataset consists of ratings and product reviews collected from e-commerce platform. It contains fields such as expected sentiment and vader sentiment to detect mismatches between given ratings and predicted sentiments.

- **File:** `review_shopee_malay.csv`

The dataset consists of Shopee product reviews written in Malay, including both human-written and bot-generated content. It contains fields such as user rating, comment, count of reviews with images, and an anonymized label indicating whether the review was likely generated by a bot.

- **File:** `shopee_reviews.csv`

This dataset contains Shopee product reviews written in English. It includes the review text, a label which is user rating.

- **File:** `counterfeit_product.csv`

The dataset consists of e-commerce product related data with counterfeit label which classifies if a product is counterfeit.

## Model Details

**Bot-Generated Review Detection**

This project uses a *Logistic Regression* model to detect bot-generated (fake) reviews.
The model is trained to classify user reviews as either genuine (0) or fake (1) based on:
- The review text (text_)
- The numerical rating given by the user (rating)

**Review and Rating Sentiment Matching Model**

This project uses *LinearSVC* model to 
  - Analyse the text sentiment of a product review
  - Compare the result with the given rating
  - Flag inconsistencies (difference between predicted rating and given rating >=2)

**Counterfeit Product Detection Model**

This project uses *XGBClassifier* model to identify if a product is counterfeit based on:
   - price
   - seller rating
   - purchases amount

## Performance

**Logistic Regression model (Bot-generated Reviews Detection)**
```
FAISS Similarity Search
Limited dataset to 1,000 most recent reviews to optimize memory usage and runtime.

FAISS approximate nearest neighbor search returned top-5 similar reviews per entry in milliseconds.

Applied a similarity threshold of 0.85 to filter highly similar pairs.

**Sample Output**:
| review_id_1 | review_id_2 | similarity_score | product_id |
|-------------|-------------|------------------|------------|
| 46          | 457         | 1.0              | eng_product |
| 130         | 4           | 1.0              | eng_product |
| 177         | 897         | 0.898            | eng_product |
```
**LinearSVC model (Review and Rating Sentiment Matching Model)**
```
Classification Report:
               precision    recall  f1-score   support

    negative       0.82      0.80      0.81     45528
    positive       0.80      0.82      0.81     45528

    accuracy                           0.81     91056
   macro avg       0.81      0.81      0.81     91056
weighted avg       0.81      0.81      0.81     91056

Confusion Matrix:
 [[36320  9208]
 [ 7991 37537]]
```

- **XGBClassifier model (Counterfeit Product Detection Model)**
```
              precision    recall  f1-score   support

           0     0.9807    0.9348    0.9572       706
           1     0.8593    0.9558    0.9050       294

    accuracy                         0.9410      1000
   macro avg     0.9200    0.9453    0.9311      1000
weighted avg     0.9450    0.9410    0.9419      1000

ROC‑AUC: 0.9939
```

## Rule-Based Malicious Word Detection

 This project includes a rule-based module and a utility function to 
   - Detect and flag reviews that contain malicious or rude keywords
   - Identify toxic words in both English and Malay

## Rule-Based Similar Review Detection with FAISS

This project uses memory-efficient semantic similarity detection using **TF-IDF vectorization + FAISS** for large datasets.
